All technologies I've learned in 2023, let me set some context here.
I am 2018 Computer Science undergrad from IIT URK.
After working in the industry for a few years, the last one year I've worked in two companies.
For the first six months I worked at a web 3 wallet.
For the next six months I worked at a crypto currency exchange, basically built from scratch with the company.
I'm going to talk a little bit about my roles in both the places and what all technologies.
Then I learned that we're new to me and I had not learned before I joined this company.
Okay, let's get right into it. Let's roll the clock back around a year ago.
October November is when I joined my first company, backpack which is a web 3 wallet.
When I joined this company, the company was a thing six months into initiation or something.
So there was a code base already there. I was actually contributing to the code base from the outside
as an open source contributor and then that sort of converted into a full time role.
When I joined these are the technologies that I learned over the next six months.
Number one, building a Chrome extension. So backpack is a Chrome extension most
wallet that you will see are some sort of an extension, but a Chrome extension fire for
extension. The reason why this is they have to store private keys and they have to interact with
something called be centralized applications or apps. For that reason they need to be an extension.
I did not set this up. This was like already set up by the time I joined. So I did not spend too much
time here, but very basic constructs knowing what a manifest file is. Things like these is something
I learned for the first time when I joined backpack. Number two, scalable chat systems. I had
done real time communication before this, which means how video goes from one person to another in a zoom
call. I had not done like basic chat systems or you know, data transfer, but not at this scale.
So I built the chat system from scratch and to build something like this, especially for it to handle
a lot of scale, build it in a distributed fashion. So that you know, you can have multiple servers
all around the world that relay this data in real time. That was a new challenge for me. I basically
architected the whole chat system and put it out there for you know, a very big event of our
doing, which the chat was sort of supposed to be spent. So that is something new challenging that
I sort of did in these, I'd say was like a month that I spent doing this. Newer clouds. So you might have
heard of AWS GCP and Azure. When I joined, I realized that there's a new fancy cloud technology
that these guys use. So backpack, you're not use AWS for the longest time, eventually
it did, but when I joined, it used something called fly, which basically is like a bunch of new
companies that are coming up that are trying to replace AWS GCP by building much more developers
centric developer friendly, one line deploy sort of clouds. They have their own data centers.
They rent up a bunch of servers throughout have a very nice internal network of wires.
And they're basically trying to replicate AWS on a smaller scale for some niche use case.
Fly is one of those companies. That's what we had used at backpack and when I joined.
And there's a sort of a new experience as to, okay, a production where the company has its
cold deployed, not on the three giants, but on a new small startup, because you provide some
benefits of ease of deploying and scaling up and scaling down things like this.
Cool. Number four, auto scaling back it. So as I said, when I joined, we were using fly, but
midway, it in a round, fifth to the ish is when I moved all the systems from fly to AWS. There were
a few reasons for it. They were unstable from time to time and it just made sense to move to a
more reliable partner right below before the mid, the mid happened in March or April something
like that. Mint is like a big event that happened for us. And we had to make sure that the
systems are really stable during that time. For that reason, we moved to AWS. When we moved to AWS,
I learned not for the first time and then a little bit of this before, but you know how auto scaling
system were built. So that if we receive a lot of traffic or systems auto scale. Cool. After that,
one small thing I didn't really work on, but I learned because I looked at the code base was
the actual logic to do with NFT Mint. If you don't understand this part, it's fine. It's a very
web3 specific concept, which is whenever an NFT collection is released out in the world, you do something
called the Mint. Mint basically means it's being released out in the world for the first time.
And all the code to write that, all the code to prevent bots from hitting our servers when that happens.
Was written by someone else, but I read through it just to understand how we were trying our best to,
prevent attacks like this. There was a whole honeypot algorithm that was put there so that people
who did try to bot, they would lose their money or so on. So they were like a bunch of complicated
ad hoc logic there to prevent as much bots as we could. And another thing I learned,
I did not implement, but learned doing this NFT Mint process was D to us attacks, which was
denial of service attacks, basically a lot of people, a lot of what's trying to bring your server
because they want to do something malicious specifically for us that was, they wanted to
see all the NFTs or Mint all the NFTs. So they would try to build a bringer systems down
during the NFT Mint. We had to make sure we were able to prevent that, so preventing a DDOS attack,
is another new thing that I learned in the last one here. Cool. This is a checkpoint. The
checkpoint is now well that this is a three-volet company for six months and these are at a high level
of the things I've done. A lot of my work is open source, but you will see around March is when I
stopped on pre-bitting to backpack. The reason was a new team was being created from inside.
This company to create a new company, which was going to be a thriftocarn 6th since it was a stealth
mode thingy, wasn't supposed to be released for the longest time. The exchange just got at
least last month. Before that it was supposed to be a complete sort of under the radar stealth
product for around six months. The team was really small initially when I joined March,
there was just one more engineer out of that. Me, the CEO and I joined as the CISO. Two people in
tech and then a bunch of complex compliance folks. And whatever we were building, we were building
an exchange like Binance from scratch, which is a cryptocurrency exchange, not a stock exchange like
Zero The Pure Web3 Cryptocurrency, currency centralized exchange. The first thing I learned here was
Rust, never did this before, hurdle as a jargon, but whenever you're writing systems like these,
like rating systems, you need them to be really fast for that. You need to reuse the language
like C, C++ or Rust, Rust is the one that the team had a lot of experience in I did not.
So one big thing I learned in these six months was how Rust, I built basically, basically normal
HTTP apps in Rust, but most specifically, use cases like this, a trading system in Rust.
The other thing I learned was a lot of finance, jargon, understanding how you build an exchange,
how you build margin systems, on inside an exchange, how you handle a lot of people load,
how do you bring down the server when you need to think these a bunch of things.
Sandal finance jargon, that I should have learned in Goldman, but since I wasn't in the strategy
when I did not here, I got a lot of the text post and as to how an exchange is built from scratch.
Compliance, KYC bug stuff, so any exchange, but you know, that's the other way, so needs to have
very strong compliance in place. So things like asking people for the KYC information, making sure
that they're up to date, they're not presented in North Korea, or have not have a criminal record,
things like these are the things you need to check before you actually onboard a user, all of this flow
understanding, luckily you don't have to do one of this, a lot of this is just outsourced to other
providers, but understanding how all of this is done for a core exchange, place where you need to be
very regulated and compliant, make sure you actually let the people who have functions in.
If there is a certain country that's blocked, you shouldn't let the users of that country in,
where there's a certain country that's regulated a certain way, you need to make sure you ask
those people what they're address, their social security number, things like these, so
another new thing at NUMBERDAN for react natives. So as I said, it's like two different companies,
officially for all purposes, wallet and exchange, but eventually we have two merge with the exchange
into the wallet and this part was done by B. For the first time, I again wrote React native code.
Again, here setting up a React native application from scratch and deploying it on the
app store and place or as it's own set of challenges, I luckily did not do that, a lot of that was done,
I just had to come and integrate the exchange into the mobile app. So I've run quite like a whole
some experience of, I'm a React native engineer or a mobile engineer today, but I understand how to
write it, which if you know React writing the React native with, you know, when you have existing components
and a project or there is much easier. Blockchain's papers and indexes, so when you're building an
exchange, you know, to allow people to deposit from their cold storage, from their crypto
wallets and withdraw to their crypto wallets, for that you need to index the blockchain, what does that
mean? Every transaction that is happening on the blockchain, you need to listen to it and if it is
a transaction that interests you or is it transaction which is like a deposit inside the exchange
for your customers, you need to make sure you actually carried the specific user. It's similar to
someone goes to zero-tha and then puts 50,000-mile Google Pay, that 50,000 needs to show up in
their zero-tha balance, similarly in the web 3 world, you can send bit coin from your one exchange,
two other exchange or from your cold storage wallet, into the exchange, to make sure we actually
carried you, we need to listen to the blockchain and make sure you know, every transaction is being
monitored, building that whole indexing system was also something new, specifically loaded for Ethereum.
And lastly monitoring systems, specifically very like, extremely needed for a system like this,
to you know, to withdrawable very conciliation, whether a system is down, how much time is it taking
for a trade to happen, things like these. So that was another new thing that I learned, I had never
done before, cool. This is high level of what I did in the last one year, I had called it a combination
of a lot of web 3 stuff, DevOps and low latency rating systems, that's the high level of the things
that I've learned in the past one year. Next year, I have a plan of what to learn, a lot of times,
most times, at least for me, learn in is what the company is doing, and I tend to like sort of
target a slash work in ambitious companies where the stack that's being working, work down is
something I've not worked on before. The next one, I think at the high level, this is what
my learning is going to be, is good to totally 100% change based on, you know, what kind of projects I'm
working on, number one in AI. Specifically, I feel I'll be working on, if I really go into the
touch of it, a library like Langchene or AutoCIPT, basically high level H&DPI's, I feel is a place
where, you know, there are a lot of companies and easy to get hired, and a lot of space to make
movement at this moment, because you know, it's a raw empty market at the moment, and these are,
this is a tweet by Gary Tan somewhere here, which basically talks about the same thing, this is the
project to probably look at, if you're thinking of getting into AI.
Fine-tuning models, neural networks, tensorflow, and generally large language models is something
I'm interested in, I think that's one thing that I'm going to focus on for the next one year.
We have three, I may, decentralized finance, I know, building most specific, so the most interesting
part for 53 for me was D5, but did not get a lot of, you know, chance to work on it last year.
This year, I want to, you know, understand, or at least try to build like,
some variation of how do you build a D-centralized exchange, centralized exchange,
and we centralized exchange is like significantly different, different, and how do you build
an exchange that's, you know, not centralized and let's use for things like this,
is another sort of interesting, challenging problem I feel, I might be spending my time on.
Videos streaming, so I already know a bunch of videos streaming, how do you scale video at scale,
but this comes from like a lot of motivation from we hired our first call recently, and I realized
zoom, basically broke, not the video, but I feel eventually when I talked to people,
it seemed like video was mostly fine, like a few pieces, but like when chat, broke a few people's
machines was a lot of chat floating, you know, people's machines blew up, so I think there's a,
I don't know if I want to bring it in house, it's a very challenging problem, but I've done
about it, see, or like, we'll time video before, I feel it might be a solvable problem at least for
the small subset of people that we have right now, that's another one, and last these
scalable cloud execution engines, so this basically is something like replete, replete is
another thing that we broke during our first life class, so I feel I want to bring a lot of these
systems in house for our cohorts, so for that reason I think I'll be building a few of these systems,
in the year to come, which is why I feel my learning will peak here, a lot of these things I don't
know very well, for example, scalable cloud execution engines, I've done it a little bit before,
but if you want to do it at the level of replete, which means, you know, you support a bunch of
stacks, and there are a thousand other challenges that will come in building, who's to like this,
I think, will be a challenging problem, and I think this, when you see this update video from
2021, you'll see me working on something in this spectrum of things I've talked about, cool,
that was all for the video, hopefully it was in a title video, let me know if there's something
you want to learn from all of these technologies and anything specific that's not out there,
happy to put a video on that, with that, let's send it as you guys in the next one, bye bye.